Hey guys, how are you doing? So I've got a lot of requests from viewers asking for an amazing white sauce pasta. 
So here it is. 
And this is quite an easy recipe to follow. 
And it comes out absolutely creamy and beautiful with that cheesy white sauce coating the pasta completely. 
So guys, if you enjoy watching my videos, then do give it a thumbs up, share the recipe with your loved ones and subscribe to my channels. 
So let's get on to the recipe to prepare this creamy cheesy pasta. 
Pasta. 
First up, we boil the pasta. 
So here I've taken two cups of pasta. 
This is Penny pasta, which is very easily available in the market. 
If you want, you can use any other shape of pasta you want to. 
This is two cups of pasta which is around 200 grams. 
And this pack is easily available in the market. 
To boil this in a large pot here, I've taken about five to six cups of water for boiling. 
So while it is boiling, I am going to add in some salt and one, two, a teaspoon of oil and mix that. 
As soon as it starts to boil, we'll add in the pasta and mix it a bit. 
So, very important thing you need to keep in mind is that you need to add the salt at this point. 
Only then only it will absorb the flavor of the salt. 
Otherwise it will forget the salt in the pasta here. 
Then your pasta will become little bland. 
So keep that thing in mind. 
And the another thing, I'm not adding too much oil while boiling the pasta, because if you will have too much oil over the pasta, it will not easily coat the sauce. 
Let it boil for about seven to eight minutes or until it's cooked up to 80%. 
That means it should still have some resistance. 
So let it boil over medium flame only. 
So it's been almost seven minutes. 
I'll just remove one pasta and show you. 
This is how it looks and I'll just cut this and show you. 
It forms a slight wide ring on top. 
You can see this is the perfect stage to remove the pasta. 
That means this is almost done but not fully done. 
And then we'll cook it further in that white cheesy sauce. 
This stage is called Aldante in Italian. 
So we are going to strain the pasta and then to stop the carryover cooking, we are going to put some more water on top of this. 
So wash it under the running water for about two to three minutes to stop the carryover cooking. 
Once that is done, I'm going to keep it aside and let it strain further. 
And if you want, you can just spread it a bit. 
And if you're going to use this pasta later, then you can also sprinkle some oil over it and then use it later. 
Next up, in a pan, I'm going to add two teaspoons of oil over medium flame. 
If you want, you can also use some olive oil or butter instead. 
Once that is heated, I'm going to add one teaspoon of garlic, which is finely chopped, and let it fry for about 30 to 40 seconds, or until it goes away once the garlic is nicely fried. 
Next I'm going to add in one onion, which I have roughly chopped, like this, and let it also cook for about one to two minutes, or until slightly translucent. 
So let it cook for about two minutes. 
And I'm not using more of onions, as we are going to add the other vegetables also. 
So we don't want to turn it very dark. 
It's done enough. 
Now I'm going to add the rest of the vegetables. 
So in goes one small carrot, which is chopped like this. 
Half a capsicum, cut into cubes like this. 
Handful of boiled corns. 
You can add more or less as per your taste and cook these vegetables just for about two more minutes, so that they are slightly tender, but they should still retain its crunch. 
So here you can add any vegetables which you like, and you can simply skip the ones you don't like. 
One more thing, if you want, you can also add some mushrooms or chicken if you like to at this point of time. 
So these vegetables are tossed enough for almost two to three minutes. 
We don't want to overcook it and make it very soft. 
Next, I'm going to add in some salt, half a teaspoon of black pepper powder, and mix that as well. 
And after that, switch off the flame and we'll keep this aside for now. 
To prepare the white sauce, in a pan over medium flame, I'm going to take four tablespoons of butter, let it heat over medium flame, and to this four tablespoons of butter, I am going to add in four tablespoons of meada. 
That is all purpose flour. So this is a regular salted butter, which I am using. 
If you want, you can also use the unsalted one, if you like. And after mixing the merger, keep tossing it over low to medium flame for about three to four minutes, or until the rawness of the meada, that is the all purpose flour goes away. 
And it will also change its color slightly to pale. 
So keep doing this over low flame only. 
Keep tossing it. 
We don't want to turn this very dark. 
One thing you have to keep in mind is that you have to continuously keep tossing this mixture over low flame only. 
And one more tip I would like to give you here is that the ratio of the butter and the mega is same in this recipe always. 
So here I've used four tablespoons of butter, and for that, I've used four tablespoons of merger. 
This way you will get the perfect creamy sauce. 
So after about four minutes, I can see the color of the merger has changed to slightly pale. 
So at this point of time, I'll start adding the milk. 
So now we'll start adding the milk gradually. 
I mean, we have to add the milk a little at a time and start mixing the mixture, otherwise it will stop mixing, then it will form lumps in it. 
So keep mixing it all the while while you're adding the milk. 
So here I'm adding two cups of milk for that, four tablespoons of Meta. 
So keep doing this and mixing it and soon you'll see the mixture becoming slightly thicker. 
This is how it looks. 
And if you want, you can also use a whisk in between to break that lumps, if any. 
So then it comes down to very smooth and creamy base. So after mixing it for about three to four minutes, you can see the mixture becoming a little thicker and all the lumps are gone. 
I'll show you. 
This is how it looks at this point of time. 
We'll add in some salt, half a teaspoon of black pepper powder, half a teaspoon of red chili flakes, and half a teaspoon of mixed herb seasoning. 
These all the seasonings and masalas are easily available in the market. 
And mix that as well with the base and keep cooking the sauce further for about another three to four minutes, or until it's cooked through over low flame only. 
Now, how to judge that this is the right stage to put in the pasta, whether the sauce is prepared or not. 
So one tip I would like to give you here, whenever you put your spoon in the sauce and when it is coating the back of the spoon this way, see this way, that means it's the perfect coating consistency. 
It's neither too runny nor too thick. 
It's the perfect coating consistency. 
That's the right steak. 
You can put your pasta once that stage comes. 
I'm going to add in the prepared vegetables along with the boiled pasta. 
And we'll mix everything really well with the help of a spatula until all the vegetables and the pasta are nicely coated with a white sauce. 
So let it cook further for about two to three more minutes, so that it absorbs all the flavors of the sauce. 
And if you find your sauce to be very thick at this point of time, then you can add just two to three tablespoons of milk or water to adjust its consistency. 
So it's been almost two minutes. 
I'm cooking over medium flame. 
We don't have to cook it too much also, otherwise your pasta will be overboiled and it will break apart in it. 
This thing you have to keep in mind. 
You have to cook the pasta just enough for two to three minutes so that it's fully cooked also, but not overcooked. 
Next I'm going to put in my favorite ingredient, that is cheese. 
So here I'm adding three to four tablespoons of grated cheese. 
You can add more or less cheese as per your preference. So today I'm using this AMOLED cheese. You can use any other cheese of your choice. So now the cheese is also nicely melted. I'll just show you the consistency. This is how it looks. Each and every pasta is completely coated with that cheesy white sauce. It's looking really flavorful, mouthwatering and tempting. You can serve it hot while serving. Only you can make out how beautiful and creamy it has come out with. All the vegetables are nicely cooked. You can simply serve this with some extra red chili flakes, some mixed herb seasoning, and some grated cheese on top. So here you go. Your homemade cafe style creamy white sauce pasta is ready. If you enjoyed today's recipe, do like, share and subscribe to Kanak's Kitchen for more such exotic recipes. I'll see you soon in my next video. Bye.