So I've got a lot of requests from viewers asking for an amazing white sauce pasta.
And it comes out absolutely creamy and beautiful with that cheesy white sauce coating the pasta completely.
So let's get on to the recipe to prepare this creamy cheesy pasta.
Pasta.
First up, we boil the pasta.
So here I've taken two cups of pasta.
This is Penny pasta, which is very easily available in the market.
If you want, you can use any other shape of pasta you want to.
This is two cups of pasta which is around 200 grams.
So while it is boiling, I am going to add in some salt and one, two, a teaspoon of oil and mix that.
As soon as it starts to boil, we'll add in the pasta and mix it a bit.
So, very important thing you need to keep in mind is that you need to add the salt at this point.
Otherwise it will forget the salt in the pasta here.
Then your pasta will become little bland.
And the another thing, I'm not adding too much oil while boiling the pasta, because if you will have too much oil over the pasta, it will not easily coat the sauce.
Let it boil for about seven to eight minutes or until it's cooked up to 80%.
So let it boil over medium flame only.
I'll just remove one pasta and show you.
This is how it looks and I'll just cut this and show you.
You can see this is the perfect stage to remove the pasta.
And then we'll cook it further in that white cheesy sauce.
So we are going to strain the pasta and then to stop the carryover cooking, we are going to put some more water on top of this.
Once that is done, I'm going to keep it aside and let it strain further.
And if you're going to use this pasta later, then you can also sprinkle some oil over it and then use it later.
Next up, in a pan, I'm going to add two teaspoons of oil over medium flame.
Once that is heated, I'm going to add one teaspoon of garlic, which is finely chopped, and let it fry for about 30 to 40 seconds, or until it goes away once the garlic is nicely fried.
Next I'm going to add in one onion, which I have roughly chopped, like this, and let it also cook for about one to two minutes, or until slightly translucent.
So let it cook for about two minutes.
And I'm not using more of onions, as we are going to add the other vegetables also.
Now I'm going to add the rest of the vegetables.
You can add more or less as per your taste and cook these vegetables just for about two more minutes, so that they are slightly tender, but they should still retain its crunch.
So here you can add any vegetables which you like, and you can simply skip the ones you don't like.
One more thing, if you want, you can also add some mushrooms or chicken if you like to at this point of time.
So these vegetables are tossed enough for almost two to three minutes.
Next, I'm going to add in some salt, half a teaspoon of black pepper powder, and mix that as well.
To prepare the white sauce, in a pan over medium flame, I'm going to take four tablespoons of butter, let it heat over medium flame, and to this four tablespoons of butter, I am going to add in four tablespoons of meada.
And after mixing the merger, keep tossing it over low to medium flame for about three to four minutes, or until the rawness of the meada, that is the all purpose flour goes away.
So at this point of time, I'll start adding the milk.
I mean, we have to add the milk a little at a time and start mixing the mixture, otherwise it will stop mixing, then it will form lumps in it.
So here I'm adding two cups of milk for that, four tablespoons of Meta.
So keep doing this and mixing it and soon you'll see the mixture becoming slightly thicker.
So after mixing it for about three to four minutes, you can see the mixture becoming a little thicker and all the lumps are gone.
I'll show you.
We'll add in some salt, half a teaspoon of black pepper powder, half a teaspoon of red chili flakes, and half a teaspoon of mixed herb seasoning.
And mix that as well with the base and keep cooking the sauce further for about another three to four minutes, or until it's cooked through over low flame only.
Now, how to judge that this is the right stage to put in the pasta, whether the sauce is prepared or not.
So one tip I would like to give you here, whenever you put your spoon in the sauce and when it is coating the back of the spoon this way, see this way, that means it's the perfect coating consistency.
You can put your pasta once that stage comes.
I'm going to add in the prepared vegetables along with the boiled pasta.
And we'll mix everything really well with the help of a spatula until all the vegetables and the pasta are nicely coated with a white sauce.
So let it cook further for about two to three more minutes, so that it absorbs all the flavors of the sauce.
And if you find your sauce to be very thick at this point of time, then you can add just two to three tablespoons of milk or water to adjust its consistency.
I'm cooking over medium flame.
We don't have to cook it too much also, otherwise your pasta will be overboiled and it will break apart in it.
You have to cook the pasta just enough for two to three minutes so that it's fully cooked also, but not overcooked.
Next I'm going to put in my favorite ingredient, that is cheese.
So here I'm adding three to four tablespoons of grated cheese.
Each and every pasta is completely coated with that cheesy white sauce.
Your homemade cafe style creamy white sauce pasta is ready.